docs: reorder/simplify caching howto (#4787)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/howto/run_codes.rst

.. _how-to:run-codes:caching:

How to save compute time with caching
=====================================

> In practice, one often ends up re-running calculations one has already run before - be it because two workflows include the same calculation or because one needs to restart a workflow that failed due to some infrastructure problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the course of a project, you may end up re-running the same calculations multiple times - be it because two workflows include the same calculation or because one needs to restart a workflow that failed due to some infrastructure problem.
```

Since AiiDA stores the full provenance of each calculation, it can detect whether a calculation has been run before and, instead of running it again, simply reuse its outputs, thereby saving valuable computational resources.
This is what we mean by **caching** in AiiDA.

> With caching enabled, AiiDA searches the database for a calculation of the same :ref:`hash<topics:provenance:caching:hashing>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With caching enabled, AiiDA searches the database for a (successfully completed) calculation of the same :ref:`hash<topics:provenance:caching:hashing>`.
```

I assume this is the case!

Author: that's a good point - is this the case @greschd ?

Reviewer 2: yep 👍

Reviewer 2: aah well, these days it's a bit more complicated... it depends on the exit code of the calculation

Reviewer 2: By default even "unsuccessful" calculations are considered, only when an exit code with `invalidates_cache` attribute is emitted is the calculation _not_ taken into account.

The reason for that is that even a non-zero exit code could be either a "partial success", or an "unconditional failure" (that doesn't depend on machine details). For these, we also don't want to re-run calculations.

So it's up to plugin developers to decide what a "cachable" failure is -- of course with the drawback that it relies on them implementing it.

Reviewer 2: The default for non-zero exit codes was switched shortly before 1.0 AFAICR, so if you're porting older documentation that might be wrong.

Reviewer 2: But the simple answer for this part of the docs is: No, that's not quite right.

Author: Ok, so if I understand correctly, then I should simply dismiss Chris's suggestion here,
and we should probably somewhere else explain in more detail how calculations with non-zero exit codes are treated.

Reviewer 2: Yep. It's described [in the internals section](https://aiida.readthedocs.io/projects/aiida-core/en/latest/internals/engine.html#controlling-caching), but could probably use a more approachable explanation.

Reviewer 2: Ah, and there's another part [in topics](https://aiida.readthedocs.io/projects/aiida-core/en/latest/topics/provenance/caching.html#controlling-caching).

Author: thanks, added a couple cross-references

    caching.disabled_for     default
    caching.enabled_for      default

Enable caching for your current profile or globally (for all profiles):

.. code-block:: console

    $ verdi config set caching.default_enabled True
    Success: 'caching.default_enabled' set to True for 'quicksetup' profile

    $ verdi config set -g caching.default_enabled True
    Success: 'caching.default_enabled' set to True globally

    $ verdi config list caching
    name                     source    value
    -----------------------  --------  -------
    caching.default_enabled  profile   True
    caching.disabled_for     default
    caching.enabled_for      default

.. versionchanged:: 1.6.0

    Configuring caching via the ``cache_config.yml`` is deprecated as of AiiDA 1.6.0.
    Existing ``cache_config.yml`` files will be migrated to the central ``config.json`` file automatically.

> From this point onwards, when you launch a new calculation, AiiDA will compare its hash (depending both on the type of calculation and its inputs, see :ref:`topics:provenance:caching:hashing`) against other calculations already present in your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this point onwards, when you launch a new calculation, AiiDA will compare its hash (a fixed size string, unique for a calulation's type and inputs, see :ref:`topics:provenance:caching:hashing`) against other calculations already present in your database.
```
